# The Secrete Governance Of Ethereum

Ethereum is an impressive blockchain technology.  From a standpoint of innovation and capabilities it is 20 years ahead of any other blockchain experiment.  The interesting thing to ask is "how can Ethereum be that much more advanced than other blockchains when it is so new?".  The answer to that question can be found when the governance of Ethereum is examined.

Ethereum's governance is completely different than any other system I have ever had the privilege of studying.  Some blockchain communities form a very slow paced voting system where no one can ever agree on anything and minimal progress has been made.  Other blockchains have a single person that dictates what will happen with the network.  Both of these concepts are based off various modern government systems.  Ethereum is completely different from those two blockchain examples.

The biggest problem facing the Ethereum community from an outside perspective is that Ethereum lacks proper governance.  They are correct in what they perceive.  In fact Ethereum has no formal governance.  Interestingly, this is what has allowed for such rapid technological leaps.  The only way to explain how Ethereum is governed is to compare it with a scientific theory and show you how it relates to Ethereums lack of governance being the best governance.

Charles Darwin is a name that almost everyone on this planet has hear of.  His theories of evolution and survival of the fittest have been adopted as the accepted theory of how we went from a single cell organism to intelligent multi cellular self aware persons.  Darwin theorized that life naturally changes over time and adapts to it's environment.  If the change gives the life form an advantage in their environment then it will survive.  However, if the change does not help it or the organism does not change it dies off.  It's a simple concept and almost everyone is familiar with it as natural selection / survival of the fittest.  From Darwins perspective nature was not organized and was completely chaotic but out of the chaos it allowed for life to grow and become more sophisticated with each change to it's genetic "CODE".

Ethereums lack of governance has inadvertently created a system that mimics the development of life.  To elaborate, when ethereum has a change in "CODE" it is referred to as a hard fork.  That's all a hard fork is, is a change in the primary code of the nodes.  However, unlike other blockchains that try to reach a 100% consensus before doing a hardfork because they desire to control the outcome of the fork Ethereum does not want this 100% consensus.  In fact, if a fork occurs people are free to use whichever chain the agree with.  This can be directly tied back into survival of the fittest because in this scenario only the strongest chain will survive and the weaker chain that did not properly adapt to the environment will eventually become extinct.  Just like life this is all accomplished with an update in the "CODE" and no real governance on which code is right.  This is the secrete sauce to why Ethereum is more advance, more robust, and rapidly adapts to various problems it faces.  The entire community has organized itself in such a way that the block chain actually mimics the evolution of a living organism at a pace millions of times faster than life naturally evolves.

That's almost mind blowing to think about.  However, I want to leave you with a simple question to contemplate.  If Ethereum has the capacity to adapt to it's environment and develop the same way life did then is it possible that Ethereum could one day evolve into a real self aware intelligent life form?
